Document Center
 All Products 
Search
 Document Center 
 Alibaba Cloud Model Studio 
 API Reference (Models) 
 Speech synthesis 
 Real-time speech synthesis (CosyVoice) 
 WebSocket API 
all-products-head 
 This Product 
 This Product 
 All Products 
 Alibaba Cloud Model Studio:CosyVoice speech synthesis WebSocket API 
 Parameters and the interaction protocol for WebSocket connections to CosyVoice speech synthesis. Use WebSocket for languages other than Java and Python (which have SDK support). 
 User guide: For model overviews and selection suggestions, see Real-time speech synthesis - CosyVoice . 
 WebSocket provides full-duplex communication: the client and server establish a persistent connection with a single handshake, allowing both parties to push data to each other, providing better real-time performance. 
 WebSocket libraries are available for most languages (Go: gorilla/websocket , PHP: Ratchet , Node.js: ws ). Familiarize yourself with WebSocket basics before starting. 
 Important 
 CosyVoice models support only WebSocket connections—not HTTP REST APIs. HTTP requests return InvalidParameter or URL errors. 
 Prerequisites 
 Get an API key . 
 Models and pricing 
 See Real-time speech synthesis - CosyVoice . 
 Text and format limitations 
 Text length limits 
 Send up to 20,000 characters per continue-task instruction , with a total limit of 200,000 characters across all instructions. 
 Character counting rules 
 Chinese characters (simplified/traditional Chinese, Japanese Kanji, Korean Hanja) count as two characters. All other characters (punctuation, letters, numbers, Kana, Hangul) count as one. 
 SSML tags are not included when calculating the text length. 
 Examples: 
 "你好" → 2 (Chinese character) + 2 (Chinese character) = 4 characters 
 "中A文123" → 2 (Chinese character) + 1 (A) + 2 (Chinese character) + 1 (1) + 1 (2) + 1 (3) = 8 characters 
 "中文。" → 2 (Chinese character) + 2 (Chinese character) + 1 (.) = 5 characters 
 "中 文。" → 2 (Chinese character) + 1 (space) + 2 (Chinese character) + 1 (.) = 6 characters 
 "<speak>你好</speak>" → 2 (Chinese character) + 2 (Chinese character) = 4 characters 
 Encoding format 
 Use UTF-8 encoding. 
 Support for mathematical expressions 
 Mathematical expression parsing (v3.5-flash, v3.5-plus, v3-flash, v3-plus, v2 only): Supports primary and secondary school math—basic operations, algebra, geometry. 
 Note 
 This feature only supports Chinese. 
 See Convert LaTeX formulas to speech (Chinese language only) . 
 SSML support 
 SSML requires all of the following conditions to be met: 
 Model support: Only cosyvoice-v3.5-flash, cosyvoice-v3.5-plus, cosyvoice-v3-flash, cosyvoice-v3-plus, and cosyvoice-v2 support SSML. 
 Voice support: You must use an SSML-enabled voice. Supported voices include the following: 
 All cloned voices (created through the Voice Cloning API). 
 System voices marked as SSML-enabled in the voice list . 
 Note 
 System voices that do not support SSML (such as some basic voices) return the error “SSML text is not supported at the moment!” even with enable_ssml enabled. 
 Parameter setting: In the run-task instruction , set the enable_ssml parameter to true . 
 After meeting these conditions, send SSML-formatted text through the continue-task instruction to use SSML. For a complete example, see Getting started . 
 Interaction flow 
 Client-to-server messages are instructions . Server-to-client messages are either JSON-formatted events or binary audio streams. 
 The client-server interaction follows this sequence: 
 Establish connection: Client opens a WebSocket connection to the server. 
 Start task: Client sends the run-task instruction . 
 Wait for confirmation: Client receives the task-started event confirming the task has started. 
 Send text to synthesize: 
 Client sends one or more continue-task instructions in order. The server returns a result-generated event and audio stream after receiving a complete sentence. For text length constraints, see the text field in the continue-task instruction . 
 Note 
 Send multiple continue-task instructions to submit text fragments in order. The server automatically segments text into sentences: 
 Complete sentences are synthesized immediately, and the client receives the audio. 
 Incomplete sentences are buffered until complete. No audio is returned for incomplete sentences. 
 After receiving the finish-task instruction , the server force-synthesizes all buffered content. 
 Receive audio: Receive the audio stream through the binary channel. 
 Notify the server to end the task: 
 After sending all text, client sends the finish-task instruction and continues receiving audio. Do not skip this step, or the ending audio may be lost. 
 Task ends: 
 Client receives the task-finished event , marking the task end. 
 Close connection: Client closes the WebSocket connection. 
 To improve resource utilization, reuse a WebSocket connection to handle multiple tasks instead of creating a new connection for each task. See Connection overhead and reuse . 
 Important 
 The task_id must remain consistent throughout: Within a single synthesis task, run-task, all continue-task, and finish-task instructions must use the same task_id . 
 Consequences of mismatched task_ids: 
 Disordered audio stream delivery due to unassociated requests. 
 Misaligned speech content due to text being assigned to different tasks. 
 Abnormal task state, possibly preventing receipt of the task-finished event. 
 Billing failures or inaccurate usage statistics. 
 Correct approach: 
 Generate a unique task_id (for example, using UUID) when sending the run-task instruction. 
 Store the task_id in a variable. 
 Use this task_id for all subsequent continue-task and finish-task instructions. 
 After the task ends (after receiving task-finished), generate a new task_id for the next task. 
 Client implementation considerations 
 When implementing a WebSocket client, especially on Flutter, web, or mobile platforms, clearly define server and client responsibilities to ensure task integrity and stability. 
 Server and client responsibilities 
 Server responsibilities 
 The server delivers the complete audio stream in order. You do not need to handle audio ordering or completeness. 
 Client responsibilities 
 The client must handle the following: 
 Read and concatenate all audio chunks 
 The server delivers audio as multiple binary frames. The client must receive all frames and concatenate them to form the final audio file: # Python example: Concatenate audio chunks
with open("output.mp3", "ab") as f: # Append mode
 f.write(audio_chunk) # audio_chunk is each received binary audio chunk // JavaScript example: Concatenate audio chunks
const audioChunks = [];
ws.onmessage = (event) => {
 if (event.data instanceof Blob) {
 audioChunks.push(event.data); // Collect all audio chunks
 }
};
// Merge audio after task completes
const audioBlob = new Blob(audioChunks, { type: 'audio/mp3' }); 
 Maintain a complete WebSocket lifecycle 
 Do not disconnect the WebSocket connection prematurely during the entire task, from sending the run-task instruction to receiving the task-finished event . Common mistakes: 
 Closing the connection before all audio chunks are returned, resulting in incomplete audio. 
 Forgetting to send the finish-task instruction , leaving text buffered on the server and unprocessed. 
 Failing to handle WebSocket keepalive properly during page navigation or app backgrounding. 
 Important 
 Mobile apps (such as Flutter, iOS, and Android) require special attention to network management when entering the background. Maintain the WebSocket connection in a background task or service, or reinitialize the connection when returning to the foreground. 
 Text integrity in ASR→LLM→TTS workflows 
 In ASR (speech recognition) → LLM (large language model) → TTS (speech synthesis) workflows, ensure the text passed to TTS is complete. For example: 
 Wait for the LLM to generate a full sentence or paragraph before sending the continue-task instruction , rather than streaming character-by-character. 
 For streaming synthesis, send text in batches at natural sentence boundaries (such as periods or question marks). 
 After the LLM finishes generating, always send the finish-task instruction to avoid missing trailing content. 
 Platform-specific tips 
 Flutter: When using the web_socket_channel package, close the connection correctly in the dispose method to prevent memory leaks. Also handle app lifecycle events (such as AppLifecycleState.paused ) for background transitions. 
 Web (browser): Some browsers limit the number of WebSocket connections. Reuse a single connection for multiple tasks. Use the beforeunload event to close the connection explicitly before the page closes. 
 Mobile (iOS/Android native): The operating system may pause or terminate network connections when the app enters the background. Use a background task or foreground service to keep the WebSocket active, or reinitialize the task when returning to the foreground. 
 URL 
 The WebSocket URL is fixed: 
 International 
 In international deployment mode , the access point and data storage are both located in the Singapore region . Model inference computing resources are dynamically scheduled globally, excluding the Chinese mainland. 
 WebSocket URL: wss://dashscope-intl.aliyuncs.com/api-ws/v1/inference 
 Chinese mainland 
 In Chinese mainland deployment mode , the access point and data storage are both located in the Beijing region . Model inference computing resources are restricted to the Chinese mainland. 
 WebSocket URL: wss://dashscope.aliyuncs.com/api-ws/v1/inference 
 Important 
 Common URL configuration errors: 
 Error: Using URLs that start with http:// or https:// → Correct: You must use the wss:// protocol. 
 Error: Placing the Authorization parameter in the URL query string (e.g., ?Authorization=bearer <your_api_key> ) → Correct: Set the Authorization parameter in the HTTP handshake headers. See Headers . 
 Error: Adding model names or other path parameters to the end of the URL → Correct: The URL is fixed. Specify the model using the payload.model parameter in the run-task instruction . 
 Headers 
 Set the following request headers: 
 Parameter 
 Type 
 Required 
 Description 
 Authorization 
 string 
 Yes